### My personal notes for creating the KevinCrook.com 001 AWS AMI

This AMI provides the following:

* Ubuntu Server - AWS does not provide any Linux desktops
* Lubuntu Desktop - allows students to run the desktop in the cloud
* RDP - remote desktop protocol - allows students to connect to the Lubuntu Desktop using Microsoft Remote Desktop
* Chrome Browser - allows students to run Jupyter Notebook, etc.
* Anaconda distribution: Python 3.x and 2.x, R, Jupyter Notebook, Anaconda Navigator, etc.
* SageMath - both command line and activation for Jupyter Notebook
* Docker - this should allow students to run any Docker images used in any of their classes, including Hadoop, Spark, etc.
* git - command line counterpart to GitHub

---
### Ubuntu Server

As of August 2018, when this was made, AWS was only supporting Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS "Xenial".  
(note: 18.04 LTS "Bionic" has been out for 4 months, but not yet certified for AWS.)

Here is the image used:

Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS (HVM), SSD Volume Type - ami-759bc50a

Launched details:
* N. Virginia Region
* t2.large - 2 CPUs, 8 GiB RAM, 9 cents an hour current pricing
* 100 GiB magnetic storage, $5 a month current pricing (not SSD which would be $10 a month)
* security Group I named 001, open ports: 22 (ssh), 3389 (rdp)

---
### Upgrade ubuntu existing packages since the AWS image is really old

Update the list of packages (always do this before installing anything)
```
sudo apt-get update
```

Run an upgrade on existing packages:
```
sudo apt-get -y upgrade
```

---
### Set password for ubuntu

Set a password for ubuntu.  It will be needed for remote desktop connections:
```
sudo password ubuntu
```

---
### Lubuntu Desktop

Update the list of packages (always do this before installing anything)
```
sudo apt-get update
```

Install the lubuntu-desktop package.  The -y will answer yes to everything.
```
sudo apt-get install -y lubuntu-desktop
```

---
### RDP

The rdp version on Ubuntu 16.04 is really old 0.6.x versus the current 0.9.x on Ubuntu 18.04.  It was not allowing cut and paste with the newest version of the lubuntu desktop, which I cannot live without.  So we must first upgrade rdp to 0.9.x

We need to add the rdp 0.9.x package to the apt repository:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:hermlnx/xrdp
```

Update the list of packages to pickup the repository we just added (also, always do this before installing anything)
```
sudo apt-get update
```

Install the xrdp package and will use the rdp 0.9.x package we just added to the .  The -y will answer yes to everything.
```
sudo apt-get install -y xrdp
```

You probably won't have an ~/.xsession file.  If not create one as follows.  If you have one, back it up, delete it, and create a new one as follows:
```
echo "lxsession -e LXDE -s Lubuntu" | tee ~/.xsession
```

Check the /etc/xrdp directory for a file named startwm.sh  This file controls the starting of the windows manager.  It should look similar to this.  The last line is crucial because it tells it to use Xsession which will use our .~/.xsession file we just created.  If necessary use sudo to edit the file and correct it.
```
#!/bin/sh

if [ -r /etc/default/locale ]; then
  . /etc/default/locale
  export LANG LANGUAGE
fi

. /etc/X11/Xsession
```

Restart the xrdp service so it will read and use our ~/.xsession file we just created.
```
sudo service xrdp restart
```

---
### Windows Remote Desktop Connection

In Windows, find and run the Remote Desktop Connection.

Upper left corner, change to "smart sizing" to get rid of scroll bars.

---
### Change the number of lubuntu desktops to 1

Lubuntu desktop has 2 desktops by default.  The mouse wheel is used to move between them.  This is very useful, but since most users will not be familiar with this and will be confused by it, I will set the desktops to 1.  Users can always create more if they want.

Application Menu => Desktops on left panel style menu => Number of desktops - change to 1

---
### Disable the lubuntu desktop screen saver

Application Menu => Preferences => Screensaver => change Mode: to Disable Screen Saver

---
### Chrome Browser

Using sudo, edit the /etc/apt/source.list file and add the following line at the end:
```
deb [arch=amd64] http://dl.google.com/linux/chrome/deb/ stable main
```

Download the linux signing key for the debian package source we just added:
```
wget https://dl.google.com/linux/linux_signing_key.pub
```

Add the key to our apt keys:
```
sudo apt-key add linux_signing_key.pub
```

Update the list of packages to pickup the debian package source we just added (also, always do this before installing anything)
```
sudo apt-get update
```

Finally, we can install chrome (stable versions):
```
sudo apt install google-chrome-stable
```

---
### Anaconda 

tbd

---
### SageMath

tbd

---
### Docker

tbd

--- 
### git 

tbd

---
### AMI

tbd
